# Why Raspberry Pi? 
##Krzysztof Krystian Jankowski 

The moment I saw a printed magazine with a free computer included on the cover I 
knew the future is now. Raspberry Pi is the Amiga of our times. But smaller, way 
faster, and super cheap. Since the first Pi single-board computer (SBC) idea 
become mainstream. Thanks to the work of the Raspberry Pi Foundation the whole 
ecosystem is constantly updated and new features added.

Starting from the board itself. You can touch it whatever you want and it will 
not break from static. ANd what you would ever want to touch it? Kids. It is a 
perfect first computer for a young will-be-programmer. Pi board is small but you 
can see what components are for. Where is the main CPU and where wifi chip? You 
can learn a lot just by looking, touching and asking about each and every part of 
this little computer.

Hardware is slow compared to a modern PC. But it's fast enough to write programs 
on it. And to do this you need a software stack. Raspberry Pi OS has all of this 
already set up for us. There is the tone of documentation, books, magazines, and 
even sets of example projects to follow.

Recently Pi gets the official Visual Studio Code. And with a single line `sudo 
apt install python3-pygame` I have everything I need to write good, accelerated 
python applications. And with pyinstaller, I can compress my new app to a single 
file. Easy to share with friends.

That covers code. What about sound? Sonic Pi. This is the easiest and most fun 
way for creating music for a programmer.

Maintaining and experimenting on Raspberry Pi is super easy. The whole system 
sits on an sd card. If I break the system I just bake a new sd card and start 
over. If I want to test some new OS I can use a separate card and just swap for a 
moment. And the best part is that this card will work on any Pi. From zero to 4. 
Thanks to this I can test and set up a particular project on a Pi3 with 4 USB 
ports, Ethernet, and HDMI out. Then when I'm done I just move the card to a Pi 
Zero. The only USB it has I use for a gamepad. Easy deployment for a gum-sized 
computer.

The community came up with crafted images for all sorts of projects. Retro 
emulation, NAS, music center, or Pi-hole. I used to run my server based on a few 
Raspberries. I also stream pigeons from our balcony.

The Pi model B is small, like a smartphone. It hasfour USB ports for mouse, 
keyboard, gamepad. If you create something like a console that booths right to 
the app and needs only gamepad to control then theres Raspberry Pi Zero. It super 
small and all it's need to do is to swap sd card. I made this magazine agzacly 
that way. I have a Raspbarrian Lite with auto login to console. Then it runs the 
Diskmag app. I added gamepad input exactly for that use case. Now I can show the 
project to anyone on a big 40" screen.

When I was gwrowing mushrooms indoor I needed to know humidity and temperature 
inside the growbox. I have a senor for that and and simple LCD screen. I plugged 
all of this to the Pi Zero and codded some python code. It showed latest 
readings, toggles hummidity and temp and, refreshes readengs each 30 sec. It 
survived this environment.

You got the pattern. If there is a need for some automation or IoT the Rasbperry 
Pi is perfect. Just got two: Raspberry Pi 4 (at last 4GB ram) and Raspbery Pi 
Zero W. Or two Zero's ;)

At the end of the day, it is just fun to use.
